air strikes on Gaza have continued
Israel says it's targeting Hamas units
that led the deadly weekend attacks and
is preparing for a possible ground
offensive but the effects of the
bombardment have been devastating to the
densely populated territory as concerns
of a humanitarian crisis
grow Agony fills the
air these people are desperately looking
for survivors while pulling bodies out
of the
Rubble dawn has brought the site of new
destruction to Gaza with entire blocks
raised by overnight
strikes the houses of my family my
neighbors and mine were hit I came out
of the house to find my children injured
the whole Square was completely
destroyed these are children children
they show no
mercy the Palestinian territory one of
the most crowded places on Earth has
been under siege since Saturday in a
near constant
bombardment Israel says its hitting
targets linked to the terrorist group
Hamas in retaliation for its attacks
over the weekend that killed more than a
thousand
people the Army has deployed tens of
thousands of troops to the Border As It
prepares for a ground
offensive
the pressure is steadily Rising so far
the entry of food water fuel and
Medicine into Gaza has been halted
increasing concerns about a humanitarian
crisis Jordan has sent its first aid
package to Gaza but Israel's energy
Minister says there will be no break to
The Siege until the dozens of hostages
held by Hamas are freed humanitarian Aid
to Gaza no electrical switch will be
lifted no water hydrant will be opened
and no fuel truck will enter until the
Israeli hostages are returned home
humanitarian for humanitarian and nobody
should preach us
morals as the situation escalates
diplomats are seeking to stop the spiral
of violence and the release of the
hostages held in Gaza
we can now speak to uh hm baloa
journalist based in Gaza he joins us on
the phone uh just tell us what's the
situation there um what's happening
right now where you
are um it's it's very hard um terrifying
um um the the bombardment is um
continuing since early morning
overnight um today there was like um a
places were intensively uh targeted more
than other places um the main two areas
uh called Alama in the northern of Gaza
City um andat area attached to it um
many areas where um
had as well but this one was one of the
the most intensive one many buildings
reported uh were destroyed um there was
a strike in the beach camp um and some
people were killed while they were in in
in the house um situation in general is
very um is very hard very people don't
know um uh what to do where to go um
there's no electricity uh since
yesterday complete FL out power is is
shut the two sources of electricity is
out of service um the the telephone um
the telephone services is very limited
it keeps cut um most of the places have
no internet connection the water supply
was affected um many people who don't
have drinking water or clean water for
washing
um it's it's the ra Crossing is still
closed and people are not able to leave
um in case they want to um sometimes
there is way the Army is telling people
to evacuate area in order to to attack
it sometimes today they were
they dropped leaflets on um on certain
areas that they want the people to leave
it some people go to Ana schools honora
is talking about over 200,000 people uh
taking honora schools at shelters um um
with very limited sources there um the
Ministry of Health in Gaza hospitals are
in in at risk as well they I'm afraid I
have to cut you off here because we're
running out of time time thank you very
much the journalist hen Bala there in
Gaza for us who speak to again to you in
the next hour and earlier I spoke with
Abraham Berg he is a former speaker of
the Israeli Parliament and a vocal
critic of prime minister Netanyahu and
his policies and I asked him if he were
still speaker would he support
netanyahu's new wartime Unity
government that's a very petty little
political question because it's not
about who sits around the table but what
is the end game what is the strategy it
looks now that the strategy of Israel is
anger and revenge and I do not support
neither anger nor Revenge as a political
advisor yes there is a lot of soreness
in this Society there is not even one
home that doesn't know somebody didn't
lose somebody didn't lost somebody have
people host kept hostages in Gaza and
the sorrow is is so deep and so profound
yet it does not
justify all
means going after the leaders of Hamas
and the soldier of Hamas it's a
legitimate Target going against an
innocent population in masses in a kind
of a collective punishment the answer is
no so whether I am a simple civilian
like I am today or a political leader
like I used to be my value system is the
same enemies are to be F and innocent
people are to be engaged with the
process of Peace but if the government
does not have second part it does not
have a legitimacy for the first part now
the language coming from Israel at the
moment to crush and eliminate Hamas are
you behind that or
not listen language is very important
because it's a mirror it's a reflection
of the Soul a lot of what I know about
Israel today is not coming through the
Israeli media it comes through the
Fantastic media report and journalism
report done by Foreign agencies like
your amazing Tanya Kramer in Jerusalem
that through her reports I know what
happens couple of kilometers away from
my home and when I see the pictures my
blood boils but when I listen to the
language I cannot accept it I do not
accept any human beings defined as an
animal nobody is an animal because if my
enemy is defined as an animal it is as
if a relief an excuse from
responsibility and I say no these are
human beings with evil Behavior with
awful upcoming uh upbringing that I have
to address them as the worst expression
of humanity and I have to to admire the
other voices which are not like them and
address them as the peak of humanity but
nobody should be addressed as animal as
un or menion because this kind of
language is not a one that either
describes the reality or help us to move
onwards Mr bur you you said earlier that
you do not support the the strategy
currently being being taken by Israel
like the what some call The Siege of
Gaza what is then the alternative for
that what will would be a valid strategy
uh in in your
opinion first there is no strategy there
is only very aggressive and very violent
tactics go after them kill them it is as
if to satisfy the political base or at
least to restore some International
Macho position and I do not believe
that's a real strategy a real strategy
should be actually one that is divided
into three elements the first one is yes
to put down as as much as possible
active Hamas militant individuals the
second is to engage those
Palestinian either peace peace lovers or
people who are committed to the
political process be them in romala and
even hundreds of thousands of them in
Gaza to engage them politically speaking
and publicly speaking into a different
process between Israel and the
Palestinian real and the Palestinian
people people and the third is the
International Community only a coalition
which goes from Egypt and
Jordan the Abraham Accord countries the
Emirates Morocco Saudi Arabia now United
States of America and the European Union
only them together to come and enforce
the sides to sit down together and
actually put down swords and raise up
alternative political systems so it's in
International involvement separation
between bad people and good people and a
political
process uh let's change the subject ever
so slightly do you think this war could
have been prevented and or could have
been
foreseen this is the kind of wisdom
that I always have the facto the jury
it's a bit more difficult but a put it
as
follows two kinds
of shortcomings of my government made it
possible not made it responsible but
made it possible the first is the fact
that constantly for years now Netanyahu
is under his leadership though I do not
think he's a real leader I think he's
being led by his own personal uh
criminal agenda but through his
so-called leaders ERS ship preferred the
Hamas over the Palestinian Authority and
he actually
nourished this Hamas people in order not
to negotiate with the PLO people with
the Palestinian Authority people because
dealing with the Palestinians who are
the politically elected or appointed or
selected or recognized Palestinian
Representatives means a Palestinian
State and this is something that he
didn't like so he preferred the
extremist of the moderate and now his
investment pays back so painfully the
second is Netanyahu is frightened to
death from his political base which are
the settlers and mainly the aggressive
religious fanatic settlers in the West
Bank and he abandoned all the Israelis
around Gaza and he abandoned all the
other Israelis in order to save his
sacred settlers in the greater land of
Israel in in the West Bank and take
these two together prioritizing the
settlements and negotiating and
promoting Hamas makes him very
responsible it could have been prevented
if Israel for the last generation and
most of this political generation was
under the prime ministership of
Netanyahu would have built a very viable
Palestinian alternative which is not
religiously Zealot which is not
fundamentally fanatic
and the fact that we do not have this
alternative is actually the blood on the
hands of the Prime Minister though we
have to remember that the real killers
and the real villains here are this
malicious diabolic barbarians that
committed the you the atrocities of the
last
weekend I remember thank you so much for
your
time thank you very much
the US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin has told Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu that the United
States stands with Israel as it reels
from Hamas Terror attacks during his
visit to Israel blinkin has also been
meeting with survivors of the attacks
and families of Israelis who are being
held hostage by Hamas he says the US is
working to secure their release blinkin
described Hamas attacks as depravity in
the worst possible way he will travel to
Jordan tomorrow where he is scheduled to
meet with the Palestinian Authority
president Sami Sak is a freelance
journalist he joins us from Jerusalem
Sami what more can you tell us about
Anthony blinken's visit
today yeah well this was a very
emotional visit the kind of visit that
the Israelis very much expected to hear
uh we know that he was shown pictures of
babies who were killed in in in one of
the kibot inside
Israel I must say that that Hamas today
has announced that they're not Behind
These atrocities and that maybe someone
else was there but in any event what we
heard from blinkin is reiterating the
Israel
position equating Hamas with evil with
ISIS
he was talking about the Holocaust he
was talking about prrs and and and and
this is the kind of things that Israel
wants to hear now especially as it's
preparing the public and the and the
International
Community ahead of this campaign that
we're expecting to see and that is
ongoing um blink's visit is a show a
display of the presence of The Americans
in the region and we're also seeing
these other visits in the in this area
the meeting with the with the qataris
not only is he dedicated to help and
assist and release the the hostages but
it's showing all the players in the
region that the United States are are
here and they and they're going to play
an active role in this coming period now
prime minister netan who also just spoke
in the knesset how close is Israel get
getting to a ground offensive into
Gaza yes exactly in the keset uh there
swearing in a new cabinet uh with the
entrance of Benny Gans who was the chief
of staff and he will be in this small
War cabinet uh this is in order to have
a leadership that the Israeli public
will trust and uh so is to kind of kind
of break the opposition it's true that
the uh head of the uh opposition party
ID refused to join this government but
nevertheless the entrance of guns this
is the kind of thing that is preparing
uh the public and what we hear is that
this campaign is going to last for
months uh we hear that this going to be
a major campaign inside the Gaza Strip
where they will go from house to house
they will be destroying the tunnels they
will dissect the Gaza Strip I mean this
is the kind of scenarios that you hear
in the Israeli media from military
experts and the Israelis know that they
will also have to pay a price during
this
campaign Sami Sak there in Jerusalem for
us thank you very
much blink's words come as the UN says
nearly 340,000 people have been forced
to leave their homes in Gaza with fears
of a humanitarian crisis growing as
Israel continues to launch air strikes
on the territory Israel says its hitting
targets linked to the terrorist group
Hamas after its unprecedented attacks
over the weekend that killed at least
1200 people in Israel meanwhile
Palestinian authorities in Gaza say more
than 14400 people have been killed by
Israeli strikes here's what Netanyahu
and blinkin had to say
President Biden was absolutely correct
in calling this sheer
evil Kamas is
Isis and just as Isis was crushed so too
will Kamas be
crushed and Hamas should be treated
exactly the way Isis was
treated they should be spit out from the
community of
Nations no leader should meet them
no country should Harbor them and those
that do should be
sanctioned Tony my
friend I say to you I say to all of us
there will be many difficult days ahead
you may be strong enough on your own to
defend yourself but as long as America
exists you will never ever have to we
will always be there by your
side Israel has the right indeed the
obligation to defend itself and to
ensure that this never happens
again as the Prime Minister and I
discussed how Israel does this
matters we democracies distinguish
ourselves from terrorists by striving
for a different standard even when it's
difficult and holding ourselves to
account when we fall short our
Humanity the value that we place on
human life and human dignity that's what
makes us who we
are and we count them among our greatest
strength that's why it's so important to
take every possible precaution to avoid
harming civilians and that's why we
mourn the loss of every innocent life
civilians of every Faith every
nationality who've been
killed and we are currently waiting on
another press statement by Anthony blink
and we'll bring you that live as soon as
it
happens but first earlier I asked the W
senior International correspondent fun
faar about the message that blinkin is
bringing to
Israel basically that the US stands side
by side with Israel US Secretary US
Secretary of State blink there saying
that basically Israel has the backing as
long as it's necessary H as long as in
fact the United States exists he said
now while he reiter ating what he
already said before embarking on this
mle e stour people are of course
wondering what that actually means in
terms of the next steps forward in this
War what was also important though in
that statement that we just heard there
that blink also emphasized the value of
Civilian lives so by that indirectly
appealing to Israel as well to show some
restraint when it comes to basically
bombing a Gaza what is happening right
now as we are speaking so people there
Palestinians ordinary citizens are
fleeing basically for safety but where
to go it's such a densely populated area
Gaza Strip and also uh there's no way
out in fact there's a lot of conflict
conflicting information whether that
very important rough border between
Egypt and Gaza is going to be opened for
civilians to be able to leave and if not
to actually just at least make it
possible that Aid can come in so while
there's of course this very strong
rhetoric here by Mr blinkin and as we're
speaking he's actually speaking to to
Israelis who are trying to deliver some
Aid to those who are displaced within
Israel because of the conflict people
wonder what his presence in Israel is
going to have uh in terms of a
consequence beat for uh the potential
release of uh those hostages being held
captive since Saturday since Hamas uh
militant Hamas has Unleashed its
terroristic attack on Saturday but also
when it comes to Gaza what kind of
action is going to be undertaken to make
sure that that civilian life that Mr
blinkin is pointing out on both sides in
this conflict that civilian life is
being
protected uh fun blink will also go to
Jordan what does he want to achieve
there basically he wants to make sure
that the presence of the United States
being here in Israel H and and the
Diplomatic tour that is to follow
because he's not just only going to meet
the uh leader of Jordan but also the
leader of the Palestinian territories of
the Palestinian Authority Mr Abbas so
what he's trying to do is make sure that
actually all the Diplomatic attempts
that were that the US was pushing for
prior to all of this on Saturday are not
going to fall back to square one namely
for example the United States was
pushing a lot for some sort of a a
warming up of ties between Saudi Arabia
and Israel now that of course is in
Jeopardy as uh Israel is bombing Gaza
and by that of course uh many people in
the Arab world are wondering whether
that actually makes sense that there is
a a a tie to be forged between Saudi
Arabia and Israel so what blinkin is
trying to do here is showing to the
world that the US has a very important
diplomatic standing when it comes to
mediate this conflict while at the same
time of course we do not now know how
Iran for example is going to react to
this h a physical presence as well to of
the United States uh represented by Mr
blink in Israel and how the war as such
is going to continue against Gaza funny
fa there reporting from Jerusalem thank
you
funny